# Multi-omic-classifier-for-genome-based-chemoresistance-prediction

This repo contains the entire workflow used during the analyses listed in 'Genome-based chemoresistance prediction in High-Grade Serous Ovarian Adenocarcinoma'. 

To understand the results, first it's relevant to check on the motivation: 

Ovarian cancer is the most lethal gynecologic cancer, causing annually a large number of deaths throughout the world. In particular, high-grade serous ovarian adenocarcinoma (HGS-OC) is the most common type of ovarian epithelial carcinomas and has the worst prognosis; it is a rapidly growing carcinoma, it is believed to have a tubal origin with a high chromosomal instability.
Poor prognosis in HGS-OC is largely related to chemoresistance: although patients usually respond to initial therapy and cytoreductive surgery followed by adjuvant chemotherapy with platinum and paclitaxel, ∼70% of those with advanced-stage ovarian cancer experience recurrence; in many cases, the disease becomes incurable mainly due to the development of drug resistance. 
This thesis is born as cooperation with Istitituto di Ricerche Farmacologiche Mario Negri, particularly driven from biologist Sergio Marchini, who has the intuition that using CNA data would provide interesting results in terms of early diagnosis of the disease. 
The analysis present in this work is done in collaboration with a parallel thesis, which is presented to a diﬀerent committee. The focus of this work is on the biological aspects and results of the research, while the emphasis of the other one by Sara Sansone is on the computational methods implemented to achieve the ﬁnal goal.
One of HGS-OC peculiarity its the relapse timing of patients, that may be used as a predictor or as a label. By using it in the ﬁrst way, we performed survival analysis to discriminate the drug-responsiveness of patients through their time to relapse. 
The results obtained with this model were quite poor, therefore we decided to use the relapse timing as a label to classify patients in classes, and speciﬁcally, we focused on therapy-resistant and therapy-sensitive patients, where the former ones are identiﬁed by relapse within a short interval of just six months since diagnosis.
To do so, many diﬀerent data types have been integrated - as gene and miRNA expression data, DNA methylation data and CNA data - because of their involvement in ovarian cancer spreading and development; these data-types were downloaded from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) repository and the information needed to implement the models have been extracted through the use of GenoMetric Query Language (GMQL), developed at Politecnico di Milano. 
Building an eﬀective classiﬁer through an integrative approach was the most diﬃcult part of the thesis; based on this approach we were able to ﬁnd signiﬁcant results. These results are promising, and the integration of multiple data-types can be considered an innovation for this case of study. The most signiﬁcant biological contribution was then integration of the genome portions that characterize the classiﬁer, useful for explaining from a biological point of view the main distinctive features of resistant patients.
An important outcome was the identiﬁcation of the Notch Signaling Pathway, considered to be one of the most important signalling pathways in drug-resistance tumor cells.
